# SweetPea Documentation Meta Information

This page gives information about the resources and process involved in writing
documentation for SweetPea. This is not itself documentation of the SweetPea
language or package.


## Structure of This Directory

The `/docs/` directory contains:

  * `.gitignore`
      * Manages documentation-specific git settings.
  * `Makefile`
      * Builds the documentation.
  * `README.md` (this file)
      * Informs contributors about how SweetPea's documentation works.
  * `_build/`
      * Contains the results of documentation generation (i.e., the
        documentation itself).
  * `_source/`
      * Contains the inputs to the documentation generator.


## Building

To build the documentation, install the necessary dependencies and then invoke
the `Makefile`. Ensure the SweetPea requirements are installed (see the SweetPea
documentation), and then:

    $ pip install sphinx sphinx-rtd-theme
    $ make html

This will build the documentation as a website with its home page at
`_build/html/index.html`.

### Sphinx

SweetPea's documentation is built using the
[Sphinx](https://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/master/) documentation generation tool,
which is invoked via the `Makefile` in this directory. The standard `make`
invocation we use to generate the web pages is (from this directory):

    $ make html

This will build the necessary documentation and output the results as `.html`
web pages in the `_build/html/` subdirectory.

Sphinx's operation can be configured by code in the `_source/conf.py` file. The
options employed in this configuration can be found in the Sphinx documentation.

#### Automatic Documentation

We use a few Sphinx extensions to automatically generate documentation from
docstrings, but the most important of them is
[sphinx-apidoc](https://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/master/man/sphinx-apidoc.html).
When the Sphinx build system is invoked with sphinx-apidoc, all Python files in
the `sweetpea` package are crawled for documentation, and relevant information
is automatically extracted. The results are automatically put in
`_source/api/`.

---

##### NOTE

You should *never* manually add files to the `_source/api/` directory! This
directory is reserved for sphinx-apidoc, and its contents are preemptively
destroyed during the build process to ensure we don't accidentally keep unneeded
files that were automatically generated by a previous invocation of Sphinx.

---

#### Documentation Style

We also use the [Read The Docs Sphinx
Theme](https://sphinx-rtd-theme.readthedocs.io/en/stable/) to style our
documentation. If you want to build the documentation locally, you'll need to
install the theme to get the same result:

    $ pip install sphinx-rtd-theme


## Contributing

Documentation for SweetPea is written in the Sphinx flavor of [reStructuredText
(reST)](https://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/master/usage/restructuredtext/index.html).
Contributions to the SweetPea documentation can be separated into two
categories:

  1. Documentation in the SweetPea Guide.
  2. Technical documentation in the `sweetpea` Python package.

Guide documentation (1) is meant to be prose that explains what SweetPea is, how
it works, and how to use it. This constitutes information on installation,
configuration, usage tutorials, etc., but it does *not* include lengthy
technical documentation. The technical documentation (2) is written in the
`sweetpea` Python code directly, and it is extracted automatically by
sphinx-apidoc [as explained above](#automatic-documentation).

### reStructuredText (reST)

reStructuredText, or reST, is the markup language used by the Sphinx
documentation build system.

There is a *lot* to learn to be proficient with reST, but this section will give
a brief overview of most of the important forms used in the SweetPea
documentation. There will also be links to additional resources at the end.

...

### Guide Documentation

The SweetPea Guide is meant as an explanation of how to get SweetPea working and
then use it to design experiments. The Guide is not the place for technical
minutiae. It should maintain a clear, prose-like tone as though dictated by an
excellent instructor.
